Let's get started.
Please launch the starter project by following this path inside of your course resources.
All right.
Let's start with some key things to point out.
The resources that a consumer may want to access is actually just an array list.
We're going to define a rest controller that can act as a mediator between these resources and whatever
the consumer may be.
Number two is it's actually common practice to create a service interface and use it to define every
method that a service implementation must override.
Creating a service implementation that implements a service interface helps further achieve loose coupling
because Spring Boot is going to create an object out of the service implementation.
We can visualize this by running the application in debug mode, which I had already done prior to this
recording.
And here you can see, thanks to my spring boot dashboard and vs code that the contact service implementation
exists as a bean inside of the spring container.
And thanks to polymorphism, this contact service implementation is of its own type and of type contact
service, which means that bean can be injected over here inside of our controller as a contact service.
Now, how does this actually help achieve loose coupling?
Well, what if in the future just follow for now, don't do what I'm doing.
I decide to create a better.
Our contact service implementation.
And let's just copy everything over here.
And using your imagination assume that this is a much better contact service implementation than what
we have here.
So let's go ahead and comment all of this out.
Now, I don't have to touch anything inside of my controller because this bean that gets created is
also going to be a type contact service, and so it's going to be injected over here as well.
The fact that we can make this change and not do anything inside of the controller means that it's loosely
coupled.
This is a very common design, and we're going to be pursuing it going forward.
Now, let me give you another example of why you don't want to depend on an interface.
Rather than the actual implementation itself.
Let's have both classes implementing the interface.
And when I rerun my application and debug mode.
Indoor app crashes because the field contact service in our contact controller required a single bean
to be injected, but two of them were found.
There are two contact service beans inside of the spring container.
This one and this one.
And Spring Boot has no idea which one to inject.
So it gets confused.
Then it crashes inside of application properties.
Add a server dot port equals 8080.
All right.
And now let's just say that for whatever reason, I want this beam to be created.
If the server port is 80, 80, and I want this beam to be created if the port is 1990.
What I can do is define a conditional based on this property.
So here I can say.
Add conditional on property.
So this being is going to be created on the condition that the property that's named server port.
Has a value.
Having value.
Um.
I think we said we wanted this one to be 80.
You know what?
If the server port is 9090, then we will allow spring boot to create a been out of this implementation.
And we'll go over here and we'll say.
On the condition that the server port property is 8080.
Then we will allow Spring Boot to create a bean out of the following implementation.
Conditional on property.
And when Spring Boot creates an object out of this class, then its constructor will get called.
In which case, let's just.
We'll print something like created the better.
Contact service implementation.
And if spring boot ends up creating a bean out of the following.
Then its constructor will get called.
Contact service implementation, in which case we can just print.
Created the contact service implementation.
Okay.
Let's run the application and debug mode.
Um.
The port is 8080.
So it should have created the better one.
Let's just control find better.
There you go.
It created the better contact service implementation.
And if I were to change this property to 1990.
We would have to rerun our code.
And we should see the following message.
Okay.
Now, all of that was to show you that you can achieve loose coupling when a controller relies on an
interface rather than the actual implementation itself.
We're going to follow what I believe to be a good practice of keeping our code loosely coupled.
Now, this is only for a demonstration purposes, so we will go ahead and remove it.
And we do not actually need this, quote, unquote, better service implementation.
All right.
This should be just as we left it before.
So I will see you in the next video where we're going to define a gut operation that is able to access
a resource from the following.
See you soon.